Clarified automatic collection of actions in RUM (#10067)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/real_user_monitoring/browser/tracking_user_actions.md

---

Real User Monitoring (RUM) Browser SDK automatically detects user interactions performed during a user journey. 

> The automatic collection of user actions provides insights into user behavior, without having to instrument every single click in your application. It will help you achieve the following objectives:

Reviewer: > without having to instrument every single click

We instrument every click, but we retain only the significant ones. Maybe something like:

> The automatic collection of user actions provides insights into user behavior, by retaining only significant clicks in your application

Author: added an extra note, **they** don't have to manually instrument their applications

* Understand the performance of key interactions (for example, a click on the "Add to cart" button)
* Quantify feature adoption
* Identify the steps that led to a specific browser error

You can extend the collection of user interactions by [sending your own custom actions](#custom-actions).

**Note**: The `trackInteractions` initialization parameter enables the collection of user clicks in your application. **Sensitive and private data** contained on your pages may be included to identify the elements interacted with. You can control which information is sent to Datadog by [manually setting an action name](#declaring-a-name-for-click-actions), or by [implementing global scrubbing rules in the Browser SDK][1].

## What interactions are being tracked?

The Browser SDK automatically tracks clicks. A click action is created if the following conditions are met:

> * Activity is detected within 100ms of click being handled (activity being defined as ongoing network requests or DOM mutations)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Activity is detected within 100ms of click being handled (activity being defined as the start of a network request or a DOM mutation)
```

> * Activity is detected within 100ms of click being handled (activity being defined as the start of a network request or a DOM mutation)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Activity is detected within 100ms of click being handled (activity being defined as the start of a network request or a DOM mutation).
```

> * The click does not lead to a new page being loaded, in which case the Browser SDK will generate a new RUM View event

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The click does not lead to a new page being loaded, in which case the Browser SDK generates a new RUM View event.
```

> * A name can be computed for the action. [Learn more about action naming](#declaring-a-name-for-click-actions)

Reviewer 3: This is not exactly true currently no?
I remember trying to add dd-action-name but events were still not tracked if it triggered a page change for example?

Author: I will add "If **all** the following conditions are met"

> * A name can be computed for the action. [Learn more about action naming](#declaring-a-name-for-click-actions)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A name can be computed for the action. ([Learn more about action naming](#declaring-a-name-for-click-actions))
```

  Enter a valid email address
</div>
```
## Custom actions

Custom actions are user actions declared and sent manually by using the `addAction` API. They can send information relative to an event occurring during a user journey (for example, a customer cart information).

> Once RUM is initialized, generate custom actions when you want to monitor specific interactions on your application pages with the `addAction(name: string, context: Context)` API call. In the following examples, the RUM SDK collects the number of items within a cart, what they are, and how much the cart is worth overall. The information is sent to Datadog when the user goes to the checkout page.

Reviewer: > The information is sent to Datadog when the user goes to the checkout

I feel that it is a bit unclear, since we don't mention a checkout page beforehand. Maybe we could reword this a bit like:

> The following example illustrates how to collect and send custom information to Datadog when the user checkout their cart.

  Enter a valid email address
</div>
```
## Custom actions

> Custom actions are user actions declared and sent manually by using the `addAction` API. They are used to send information relative to an event occurring during a user journey. In the following example, we collect a visitor's cart data when they hit the checkout button. The RUM SDK collects the number of items within the cart, the list of items, and how much the cart is worth overall.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Custom actions are user actions declared and sent manually by using the `addAction` API. They are used to send information relative to an event occurring during a user journey. In the following example, the RUM SDK collects a visitor's cart data when they hit the checkout button. The number of items within the cart, the list of items, and how much the cart is worth overall are collected.
```
